>> A major development in
the treatment of depression.
A new study shows
psilocybin can actually
grow connections
inside the brain
without a hallucinogenic trip.
This is Gaia News.
As we have previously
reported researchers
have found that psilocybin,
the active ingredient
in psychedelic mushrooms,
can reduce major depressive
disorder in humans.
But we have not known how it
works or how long it will last.
Now, a new study out
of Yale University
shows one dose of
psilocybin in mice
creates rapid and sustained
connections between neurons.
Steven Grant,
director of research
at the Heffter
Research Institute,
a non-profit organization
which promotes research
into hallucinogens
in the brain, has
studied how drugs affect the
brain for nearly 50 years.
>> So what they discovered
not only does a single dose
of psilocybin produce the
formation of neuronal growth
as measured by what
are called spines--
spines are little
nubby protrusions
off of the branches
of the neuron
that are associated with the
connections with other neurons.
So presumably, the more spines,
the more connections you have.
And the study found that
psilocybin not only produced
growth in the number of spines,
but it persisted over a month.
So that's remarkable.
One dose produces this
long lasting change
in the ability of the neurons
to form new connections.
>> How does psilocybin creating
spine formation work to relieve
depression?
>> The jump between spine
formation and relief of anxiety
is a jump, it's a leap.
So we can't fill in
every single step there.
But the idea is that
these drugs are increasing
the ability of neurons to
communicate with each other
and form new connections,
which will then
form new patterns of brain
activity, which will then
form new patterns of
behavioral activity.
So if you think of depression,
for example, as being stuck,
you're stuck in a place that's
aversive, things are anhedonic,
you have low mood, how do you
get out of that, especially
if you don't think
anything is worthwhile?
What this study
suggests is there
is a neurobiological process
that psilocybin kicks off
that starts with the
formation of new connections
that then will presumably
allow the person
to engage in new forms of
behavior and not be in the hole
that they were in.
>> By blocking the receptor
in the brain that receives
the psychedelic
effects of psilocybin,
the researchers made another
perhaps more important
discovery and may have
settled an ongoing debate.
>> There is a
debate in the field,
whether the therapeutic effects
depend on the psychedelic
effects.
And this is an active
controversy on the field.
This study suggests
that spine formation
is related to the
therapeutic effects
and can occur in the
absence of a measure
of the psychedelic
effects in so far
as we can measure it in mice.
This study is
remarkable because it's
a step in showing that you can
get some degree of dissociation
between the psychedelic effects
and the therapeutic effects.
>> As someone who has studied
this for nearly 50 years,
what does Steven Grant hope
these discoveries could mean
for the future of psychedelics
to treat depression?
>> This will result in the
use of drugs that will have
a therapeutic effect very
rapidly that the person
doesn't have to be on
a chronic drug regimen,
and that it produces
persistent therapeutic effects.
>> Although the findings of
this study were remarkable,
Steven cautions that this
study was done on mice.
Animal studies often translate
to humans but not always.
Much more testing
remains to be done,
and it will be hard to replicate
the same results in humans.
But this could be a major
step forward in understanding
how plant medicine can heal us.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.